# kb.github.io

Many organizations recognize that their data is a vital enterprise asset. Data and information can give them insight about their customers, products, and services. It can help them innovate and reach strategic goals. Despite that recognition, few organizations actively manage data as an asset from which they can derive ongoing value (Evans and Price, 2012). Deriving value from data does not happen in a vacuum or by accident. It requires intention, planning, coordination, and commitment. It requires management and leadership.
Data Management is the development, execution, and supervision of plans, policies, programs, and practices that deliver, control, protect, and enhance the value of data and information assets throughout their lifecycles.
A Data Management Professional is any person who works in any facet of data management (from technical management of data throughout its lifecycle to ensuring that data is properly utilized and leveraged) to meet strategic organizational goals. Data management professionals fill numerous roles, from the highly technical (e.g., database administrators, network administrators, programmers) to strategic business (e.g., Data Stewards, Data Strategists, Chief Data Officers).
Data management activities are wide-ranging. They include everything from the ability to make consistent decisions about how to get strategic value from data to the technical deployment and performance of databases. Thus data management requires both technical and non-technical (i.e., ‘business’) skills. Responsibility for managing data must be shared between business and information technology roles, and people in both areas must be able to collaborate to ensure an organization has high quality data that meets its strategic needs.
Data and information are not just assets in the sense that organizations invest in them in order to derive future value. Data and information are also vital to the day-to-day operations of most organizations. They have been called the ‘currency’, the ‘life blood’, and even the ‘new oil’ of the information economy.1 Whether or not an organization gets value from its analytics, it cannot even transact business without data.
